---
layout: post
title: "Year One"
date: 2016-11-30
details: "Blog Post"
published: false
---

November 30th, 2016. This day, this month, this year – they all mark a significant time in my life. I've just hit the quarter-century milestone in my life, it's exactly three years since I made a major realisation in my education to shift my focus, and it's also been exactly a year that I started to work my first full-time career at <a href="http://www.forrec.com" target="_blank">FORREC Ltd</a>. It's definitely got me thinking about what I've done so far, and I promised to use this website as a space to really express the breadth of work that I find passion for. <strong> Here's my reflection on my philosophy as a "Designer" as I conclude 25 years.</strong>

<br>
<h4 class="article-subheading">Being a "Designer" is 90% about thinking differently. But I also have an eye for things.</h4>
<hr class="xs-thick-hr" align="left">

I've grown out of seeing design purely out of either improving functionality or making something aesthetically forward-thinking. 

I've always sought out to do meaningful work, even if it means I become extremely introspective (that's a whole other piece of writing). The reason I loved architecture so much was that it was the most public of the arts: it was both an artistic and pragmatic discipline that was deeply involved in how human beings interacted with one another, and went about their daily lives. 

I'm always interested in meeting new people. If you want to collaborate or just grab coffee, give me a shout at <a href="mailto:jamie@studiobud.ca?Subject=Hello!" target="_top">jamie[at]studiobud.ca</a>!

