---
layout: post
title: "Year One"
date: 2017-01-03
details: "Blog Post"
published: true
---

I'm not usually one to make New Years resolutions, but I think this year I'll have to jump on that Millennial bandwagon given 2017 marks a few significant milestones in my life. 

I've just hit the quarter-century of being in this world and officially became "old" when my 8-year old cousin thought I "wouldn't understand" what she was playing on her iPad at our Christmas gathering (she was playing Bejeweled, FYI). It's also three years since I made a major realisation in my education to shift my focus, and a year that I started a career at <a href="http://www.forrec.com" target="_blank">FORREC Ltd</a>. To say the least, this time of year has definitely got me reflecting on what I've done so far, and how the next 365 days will be written. Here are a few goals that I'll be looking towards in the new year:

<br>
<h4 class="article-subheading">1. Focussing on myself and my passion projects.</h4>

2016 was a big year, but also a tiring year. I was fresh out of school, and my interests wide reaching. I gained a reputation amongst my peers for being that "person who always had 10 projects on the go" and definitely got hit by the "always saying yes" problem. The biggest changes in my career mindset occurred because of working with my friends on the widest possible array of projects, and I loved it! But I definitely got worn out by the time October/November hit and I was forced to scale back. 

2017 is the year to focus on myself: I'm going to pursue only projects that I find true passion for, or that directly align with one of my personal goals. While I'd love to extend myself into working on everything I cross paths with, stretching myself thinly at this point will only be a detriment to my work and have a negative effect on what I love to do. I'll be putting more focus on <a href="http://www.jamiemkwan.com/projects/studiobud" target="_blank">Studio Bud</a>, a youth creative initiative that I co-founded with 3 amazing friends, as well as on my personal creative endeavours (TBD!). 

<br>
<h4 class="article-subheading">2. Keeping my creativity in check, and my pen/hand drawing.</h4>

Last year was about building and extending my network, and pursuing my creative interests. This year is about keeping my hand moving and my skills in check. I've finally gotten my website redesign to a point where I can use it as a playground for my personal side projects. This year I'll be bringing those key personal projects to life and maintaining them on a more ongoing basis!  

<br>
<h4 class="article-subheading">3. Keeping my curiosity in focus.</h4>

I've always had an interest in world culture and travel (what Millennial doesn't want to see the world and Instagram the hell out of it!). A few years ago, I started to put my interest in photography into a blog called Curiosity in Focus, alongside my brother, and this has evolved into becoming a part of his personal brand and extending into vlogging and recording podcasts. I've put a pin on helping him out with his personal brand, and will now focus on what Curiosity in Focus means to me: and really that's keeping my "curiosity in focus".

In the next month, I'm going to start to draw and see how my love for drawing/design intersect with my love for travel (and my wanderlust): I likely won't be travelling far, but I'll let my wanderlust inform some new creative projects and what the conversations I hvae through this blog/brand translate into! Keeping an eye on my <a href="https://www.instagram.com/jamiemkwan">Instagram<i class="icon-instagram"></i></a> to see how that turns out.

<hr class="xs-thick-hr" align="left">

I'm always interested in meeting new people. If you want to collaborate or just grab coffee, give me a shout at <a href="mailto:jamie@studiobud.ca?Subject=Hello!" target="_top">jamie[at]studiobud.ca</a>!
