---
layout: post
title: "Why Play?"
date: 2017-01-04
details: "Blog Post"
published: false
---

The idea of 'play' is something that a lot of people can connect with, as it has a nostalgic feel to it. A lot of my career has been a result of fostering my creativity through play growing up, and the projects I work on have come out of simply tinkering in off-hours. I was extremely inspired by the vagueness and breadth that the term brings, and after reading Miguel Sicart's <i>Play Matters</i> (2014) while completing my Masters research, see 'play' in a lot of different ways. Now, as an experience designer in the theme park industry, I literally design for play: and alas the term has made me think about what exactly I believe in as a Designer.

<br>
<h4 class="article-subheading">I design with play.</h4> // Entertainment Design

I currently work in the Creative Studio at FORREC Ltd, an entertainment design company that specializes in theme parks, visitor attractions, and retail environments. Every week I work on projects that have play components, attractions, or simply embody 'playfulness' and inspire a sense of play. How I got here, and why I came to enjoy this line of work, is a bit of a longer story.

Pursuing a degree in Architecture, I always wanted to create spaces that people found value and meaning while living within. 

<br>
<h4 class="article-subheading">I design for play.</h4> // Studio Bud, Experience Design



<br>
<h4 class="article-subheading">I design through play.</h4> // Design Process



<hr class="xs-thick-hr" align="left">

I'm always interested in meeting new people. If you want to collaborate or just grab coffee, give me a shout at <a href="mailto:jamie@studiobud.ca?Subject=Hello!" target="_top">jamie[at]studiobud.ca</a>!
